Add guideline for testing exceptions (#74)
canonical/is-charms-contributing-guide: CONTRIBUTING.md

This structure makes it easy to understand what is required before test
execution, how the test works and what it checks for in the end.

## Test Exception Raised

> Testing an exception being raised is not enough as a type of exception

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing an exception being raised might not be enough as a type of exception
```

can be raised due to multiple reasons. E.g., a function could raise `ValueError`
for different arguments.

The property of the exception being raised should be asserted against as well.

> A common test would be the string representation of the exception. Using the

Reviewer: Would you suggest to do this in every case or only in cases where its useful to distinguish like your case mentioned here? For example, if you have a `LogError` error with the msg `Could not retrieve logs`, would you suggest asserting on the message?

Author: The `LogError` might be used for a different type of log error in the future.
Always testing it seems to be a easy way to manage this.

following `pytest` example:

```Python
def test_something():
  """Test docstring"""
  with pytest.raises(ValueError) as err:
      something(a=10, b=False)

>   assert str(err.value) == "Argument a must be less than 5"

Reviewer 2: For these kind of checks it is generally better to check for whether a substring is contained in the exception message that uniquely identifies the exception so that it doesn't have o be re-written every time the wording has changed. e.g., `assert "less than 5" in str(err.value)`

Author: I have updated the code sample.

This structure makes it easy to understand what is required before test
execution, how the test works and what it checks for in the end.

## Test Exception Raised

Testing an exception being raised might not be enough as a type of exception
can be raised due to multiple reasons. E.g., a function could raise `ValueError`
for different arguments.

The property of the exception being raised should be asserted against as well.
A common test would be the string representation of the exception. Using the
following `pytest` example:

```Python
def something(a: int, b: bool):
  """Do something."""
  if a >= 5:
    raise ValueError("Argument a must be less than 5")
  if b:
    raise ValueError("Some other error message")
  # Rest of the function...

def test_something():
  """Test the something function."""
  with pytest.raises(ValueError) as err:
      something(a=10, b=False)

>   assert "argument a" in str(err.value)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  assert "Argument a" in str(err.value)
```

  assert "less than 5" in str(err.value)
```

In the above example, the `something` function could have thrown a different
`ValueError` related to the argument `b`. Testing the string representation of
the `ValueError` ensures the proper type of error is being tested against.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think in some cases, when we're mocking exceptions, this doesn't always have to be tested.
For example, if I mock a function that should raise a mocked exception and assert on the mocked exception, the test doesn't add much value.
```
monkepatch.setattr(module, "func_to_mock", MagicMock(side_effect=[SomeException(msg)])

with pytest.raises(SomeException) as exc:
    assert msg in exc
```

Author: If the `SomeException` is a unique exception for tests, then it would not have much value.
But if the `SomeException` could be raised by the charm code, then I think it is important to test the `msg` to confirm it was indeed the mock that was raising the exception.

Reviewer: Perhaps mention somewhere that there are cases where testing properties on the exception does not make sense. There may be people (especially new starters) who try to follow the guide to the letter, which may result in unnecessary lines of code.

Author: I feel it might be good for all exception to be tested. Since a unique type of exception might be reused for another similar error in the future. Always testing the properties of the exception raised future proofs the code.
For the github-runner charm, this has occurred more than once now.
